
|Principle|Description  |
|--|--|
|Medaillon Architecture | Used to logically organize data , progressively improving its structure and quality as it flows through layers (from Bronze to Silver to Gold) |
|Loosely coupling | Minimizes dependencies between components, allowing them to function independently while still interacting effectively |
|Segregation of duties | Ensures critical tasks are divided among different individuals to prevent conflicts of interest and unauthorized activities |
|Principle of least privilege | Ensures that a user is granted only the minimum necessary access to perform their job functions |
|4 Eyes validation | Ensures that every change is reviewed by a second individual that is independent and competent |
|Shift Security left | Incorporates security and testing as early as possible in the development, identifying vulnerabilities as code is being developed |
|DTAP Environments|Ensures a controlled and systematic approach to software development, testing, and deployment, minimizing risks and ensuring quality across different stages|
|Automated Deployments|Streamlines the process of releasing software by automatically deploying code changes to acceptance and production environments|

#Medaillon Architecture
- Bronze Layer (raw data): Here, data from external source systems is landed. The table structures mirror the source system tables “as-is,” along with additional metadata columns (e.g., load date/time, process ID). The focus is on quick Change Data Capture, historical archiving, and data lineage.
- Silver layer (cleansed and conformed data): In this layer, data from the Bronze layer is matched, merged, and cleansed. The Silver layer provides an “Enterprise view” of key business entities, with organizational business rules applied, to be consumed by the Gold layer.
- Gold layer: The Gold layer supports domain data projects and products, building upon the Silver layer. It’s where complex transformations and domain-specific business rules are applied to answer specific business problems

#Loosely coupling
- Multiple, atomic components within a system are connected but not heavily dependent on each other
- Each component operates independently, performing its specific task without tight integration
- Contract interfacing ensures the cohesion of the whole chain
- Together, these components create a general network or system that promotes flexibility, scalability, and easier maintenance
- Components can be replaced with alternative implementations that provide the same services. This flexibility allows for seamless upgrades or changes

#Segregation of duties
#Principle of Least Privilege
The Principle of Least Privilege (PoLP), also known as the Principle of Minimal Privilege (PoMP) or the Principle of Least Authority (PoLA), ensures that within a computing environment, every module (such as a process, user, or program) has access only to the information and resources necessary for its legitimate purpose.

Users and processes should be granted only the essential privileges required to perform their intended functions. For instance, an account created solely for data consultation doesn’t need the privilege to modify data; it’s restricted to reading it only.

Adhering to the principle of least privilege enhances data protection and guards against both faults and malicious behavior

# 4 Eyes validation
#Shift Security Left
Shift Left Security is an approach that integrates security practices into the earliest stages of the software development lifecycle. Traditionally, security has been viewed as a “bolt-on” feature added after the software is created. However, this reactive approach leaves software vulnerable to cyberattacks. 

By shifting security left, teams can uncover vulnerabilities, defects, and bugs earlier in the development process, resulting in more secure systems and improved speed and quality
#DTAP Environments
Manuchar developments follow a DTAP 4-environment principle :
- D: development --> mainly used for unit testing by developers
- T: test --> mainly used for integration testing, and unit testing by analysts
- A: acceptance --> integration testing, user acceptance, release preparation
- Q: quality --> mainly used for testing with production data
- P: production --> production environment

To be noted is that a "Chinese Wall" is/should be build between all environments. By default, all data we ingest into our D environments is coming from the D environment of our sources, same for T, A and P.

It is not allowed (unless excpetions), to backport data from a higher environment to a lower one (data privacy concerns) within a platform, and for the DBB, it is not allowed to ingest data from sources belonging to another environment than our target environment (f.i. it is not allowed to ingest D365 prod data into our T environment).
Please note that exceptions can be granted on that principle, since not all sources do have the 4 DTAP environments. Any exceptions need to be validated by the platform owner, and need to be clearly documented (in the data contracts).

#Automated Deployments
Manuchar follows a "gated CI/CD" approach for deployments, meaning that the delivery team has full liberty to integrate code into the lower 2 environments (D & T), by executing pull requests into the linked branches.

For D environment, we can sync the repository to the workspace by using the Fabric sync functionality. For T environment, we require the deploys to be orchestrated and initiated in Azure Devops, through build and release pipelines (that will call the Fabric APIs).

For other environments (A , Q, & P), Manuchar expects a "release" calendar (still to be defined), with the extra constraint that the P releases need to be 100% in sync with the releases in A (see above).
Continuous integration will be followed, but for the A & P environments, we will not apply continuous deployment, but it's "gated" version, to be managed by the release managers / product owners.